https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nolands_Ferry_I_Archeological_Site
   Coordinates: 39°15′N 77°29′W﻿ / ﻿39.250°N 77.483°W﻿ / 39.250; -77.483  From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia     United States historic placeNolands Ferry I Archeological SiteU.S. National Register of Historic Places Show map of MarylandShow map of the United StatesNearest cityTuscarora, MarylandNRHP reference No.85003152[1]Added to NRHPOctober 18, 1985 Nolands Ferry I Archeological Site is an archaeological site near the historic Noland's Ferry boat landing at mile 44.58 on the C&O Canal and Tuscarora. The Archeological Site is a prehistoric occupation site located in the Monocacy region of southern Frederick County, Maryland. Diagnostic artifacts at the site indicate that the site was almost continuously inhabited from the Paleo-Indian period to the early 19th century, with the most substantial inhabitation occurring during the Late Woodland period.[2] The site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.[1]  Nolands Ferry and Nolands Island Noland's Ferry, for which the site is named, has a broad history from the mid-1700s, with some of America's founding leaders among its customers.   Ferry history[edit] Noland's Ferry began operating in the mid-1700s and carried travelers, their wagons, carriages and livestock across the Potomac River between Loudoun County, Virginia and Frederick County, Maryland. During the American Revolutionary War it was used by the U. S. Army and during the Civil War, by the armies of both the North and South.[3] The ferry remained in operation until the early 1900s. Philip Noland was the first Noland to run the ferry and his wife was the daughter of Francis Awbrey (also Aubrey).[4] Awbrey was granted a license for a ferry in 1738 which ran near the Noland Ferry crossing site. The family ferry business got its start at that time and their son Thomas continued to run Noland's Ferry. Thomas Noland's wife Mary Eleanor Luckett[4] is the daughter of William Luckett who had a nearby ferry that Thomas took over.[4] The first original record that mentions Noland's Ferry pre-dates Loudoun County and is in the Fairfax County records of March 20, 1754. The registration for the Catoctin Rural Historic District, section 8 page 3, states that "... As early as 1748 Philip Noland had established a ferry at the site...". In 1756, in a political infight, Philip Noland was denied a license to operate the ferry by the Virginia House of Burgesses which awarded a license to Josiah Clapham (who was a voting member of that legislature). In 1778 Clapham's license was discontinued[4] and Philip Noland, who appears to have stayed in business without a Virginia license, was awarded one.[5] Because the Potomac River is totally in Maryland, as is Noland's Island, approval from Virginia's House of Burgesses appears not to have been critical. In the yellow fever epidemic of 1793, in an attempt to keep the fever out of Virginia, the governor ordered that Nolands and six other Potomac ferries limit travel for those coming from Philadelphia who were required to wait on the Maryland side of the river for six days and were only allowed to proceed if they were without symptoms.[6]  Potomac River crossing[edit] Travel between Virginia and Maryland necessitated crossing the Potomac River, the fourth largest east coast river, which has always been an obstacle for travel over land. Several ferries were established to serve that area and Noland's Ferry ran from Leesburg to Maryland for over 150 years. Noland's Ferry Road leads to a boat ramp on the C&O canal outside Washington, D.C., which was the ferry's Maryland location. In Leesburg, just across the river, the location is marked by Noland's Ferry Road and a house on that road which was built around 1800 by a Noland who ran the ferry. Noland's Island is nearby in the Potomac River.  Carolina Road[edit] The ferry was often used by travelers heading to the Carolinas. The location of the Carolina Road in Northern Virginia is near today's Route 15. In the 1700s, Noland's Ferry was a link between the Virginia and Maryland sections of the Carolina Road.[7]  Revolutionary War[edit] Noland and Luckett family members were strong supporters of American independence. William Luckett was a colonel in the Maryland militia and Thomas No[w]land fought in the Maryland "Flying Camp", a quick response group.[8] Thomas Hussey Luckett and David Luckett were members of the Continental Army.[9] During the Revolutionary War, the American army sent troops and POWs across the ferry and stored munitions in the ferry warehouses.[5]  Washington and Jefferson[edit] George Washington and Thomas Jefferson were among the ferry's customers. Jefferson noted that he went via Noland's Ferry in July 1802 on the way from Washington to Monticello[10] and Washington wrote in his diary that he ate at "Knowlands Ferry" on August 9, 1785.[11]  Noland Ferry house, Leesburg, VA Unfinished ferry house[edit] Sometime after the Revolutionary War ended, a large house was built on the grounds of the ferry and although construction was completed enough to be weathertight, key elements of the house were not finished, including interior woodwork and plaster.[4] The house remained unfinished until the 1950s[12] and the mystery as to why was the subject of a Washington Star magazine article in 1949 with the inaccurate title "200 Year Old House That Was Never Finished".[13]   References[edit]   ^ a b "National Register Information System". National Register of Historic Places. National Park Service. April 15, 2008.  ^ "Maryland Historical Trust". National Register of Historic Places: Nolands Ferry I Archeological Site. Maryland Historical Trust. October 5, 2008.  ^ "Nolands Ferry". C&O Canal Trust. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ a b c d e Fiedel, Stuart; Bedell, John; LeeDecker, Charles (December 2005). "Cohongorooto: The Potomac Above the Falls" (PDF). National Park Service History eLibrary. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ a b Edwards, David A.; Salmon, John S. (January 31, 1989). "Catoctin Rural Historic District NRHP Nomination" (PDF). Virginia Department of Historic Resources. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ Loudoun County Order Book P, pp. 272–273  ^ Scheel, Eugene. "The Carolina Road". The History of Loudoun County, Virginia. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ Steiner, Bernard Christian, ed. (1899). "Records of Maryland Troops in the Continental Service". Muster Rolls and Other Records of Service of Maryland Troops in the American Revolution. 18: 42. Retrieved December 9, 2021 – via Maryland State Archives.  ^ Steiner, Bernard Christian, ed. (1899). "Officers ... Jan 1, 1781". Muster Rolls and Other Records of Service of Maryland Troops in the American Revolution. 18: 365. Retrieved December 9, 2021 – via Maryland State Archives.  ^ "Route to Washington, D.C.: Washington to Monticello". Thomas Jefferson's Monticello. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ "Washington Diary entry: 9 August 1785". National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ Historic American Buildings Survey. "Noland Ferry House, Big Spring Road, Waterford, Loudoun County, VA". Library of Congress. Retrieved December 9, 2021.  ^ "A Guide to the Wade Hampton Frost Collection 1880–1938; 1938–1984". Virginia Heritage. Retrieved December 9, 2021. '200 Year Old [Noland] House That Was Never Completed,' article published in Washington Star pictorial magazine   External links[edit] Nolands Ferry I Archeological Site, Frederick County, including photo in 1978, at Maryland Historical Trust Google Earth 39°15′N 77°29′W﻿ / ﻿39.250°N 77.483°W﻿ / 39.250; -77.483  vteU.S. National Register of Historic Places in MarylandTopics Contributing property Keeper of the Register Historic district History of the National Register of Historic Places National Park Service Property types Listsby county Allegany Anne Arundel Baltimore County Calvert Caroline Carroll Cecil Charles Dorchester Frederick Garrett Harford Howard Kent Montgomery Prince George's Queen Anne's Somerset St. Mary's Talbot Washington Wicomico Worcester Lists by city Baltimore: (Central North and Northwest West and Southwest East and Northeast South and Southeast) Other lists Bridges National Historic Landmarks   Category:National Register of Historic Places in Maryland  Portal:National Register of Historic Places  vteNative Americans in MarylandHistorical and present tribes Accokeek Assateague Chaptico Choptank Doeg Lumbee Mattawoman Nacotchtank Nanticoke Patuxent Piscataway Indian Nation Piscataway Pocomoke Potapoco Powhatan Shawnee Susquehannock Tockwogh Yaocomico Historical languages Nanticoke language Piscataway language Powhatan language Susquehannock language Unami language Present territoriesTayac TerritoryHistoric figures Turkey Tayac Indian Will Historical communities Accokeek Creek Site Caiuctucuc Nottingham Shawnee Old Fields Village Site Precontact peoples Monongahela Precontact communities Aisquith Farm E Archeological Site Arundel Cove Archaeological Site Barton Village Site Beck Northeast Site Biggs Ford Site Brinsfield I Site Buckingham Archeological Site Bumpstead Archeological Site Elkridge Site Grear Prehistoric Village Site Heath Farm Camp Archeological Site Heath Farm Jasper Quarry Archeological Site Hoye Site Iron Hill Cut Jasper Quarry Archeological Site Katcef Archeological Site Martins Pond Site McCandless Archeological Site Meyer Site Monocacy Site Nolands Ferry I Archeological Site Sandy Point Site Shoemaker III Village Site Walker Prehistoric Village Archeological Site Willin Village Archeological Site Other precontact sites Broad Creek Soapstone Quarries Magothy Quartzite Quarry Archeological Site National Archives Archeological Site Old Colony Cove Site Institutions Baltimore American Indian Center Other topics Native American place names in Maryland We-Sorts      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nolands_Ferry_I_Archeological_Site&oldid=1244148974" Categories: Archaeological sites in Frederick County, MarylandArchaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in MarylandNative American history of MarylandPaleo-Indian archaeological sites in the United StatesWoodland periodNational Register of Historic Places in Frederick County, MarylandFerries of MarylandFerries of VirginiaTransportation in Loudoun County, VirginiaTransportation in Frederick County, MarylandHidden categories: Articles using NRISref without a reference numberPages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasUse mdy dates from August 2023Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataCoordinates on Wikidata 