    From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   News publication   This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "The Catholic Times" Wisconsin – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (June 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this message)  The Catholic Times was the official publication of the Roman Catholic Diocese of La Crosse in La Crosse, Wisconsin.  Published bi-weekly, the newspaper had 29,000 subscribers, most of whom lived within the 19 Wisconsin counties that comprise the diocese.  Description[edit] The newspaper's content included international, national, and local news, and commentaries on religion and other issues of interest to Catholics. A primary focus of the paper was to publish the events and activities of the people and parishes of the diocese. It published Bishop William P. Callahan's column ("The Bishop's Corner") and official diocesan decrees. For much of its international and national news, the paper relied on the Catholic News Service. The website of The Catholic Times published articles that are too large and photographs too numerous for the paper and items that do not fit in the newspaper's publishing niche. Thus, the paper and website did not mirror each other. Stan Gould had served as editor of The Catholic Times since 2009, Denis Downey, the associate editor since 2010 and Joseph O'Brien has been the staff writer since 2010. The Catholic Times also had five freelance reporters in the diocese. It ceased publishing following the October 29, 2015 issue.[1]  References[edit]   ^ Klein, Franz (September 17, 2015). "Kleinshire: Thoughts on the shuttering of La Crosse's diocesan paper". Kleinshire. Retrieved April 19, 2016.   External links[edit] Official website vteRoman Catholic Diocese of La CrosseBishops Ordinaries Michael Heiss Kilian Caspar Flasch James Schwebach Alexander Joseph McGavick John Patrick Treacy Frederick William Freking John Joseph Paul Raymond Leo Burke Jerome E. Listecki William P. Callahan Gerard William Battersby Auxiliary William Richard Griffin Churches Cathedral Cathedral of Saint Joseph the Workman Parishes Notre Dame Church, Chippewa Falls Sacred Heart of Jesus-St. Patrick's Church, Eau Claire Sacred Heart-Saint Wenceslaus Church, Pine Creek Former Our Lady of Spring Bank Abbey Saint Ann's Church, Greenwood Shrine Shrine of Our Lady of Guadalupe, La Crosse Chapel Maria Angelorum Chapel, La Crosse Education Higher education Viterbo University High schools Aquinas High School, La Crosse Assumption High School, Wisconsin Rapids Columbus Catholic High School, Marshfield McDonell Central Catholic High School, Chippewa Falls Newman Catholic High School, Wausau Pacelli High School, Stevens Point Regis High School, Eau Claire Former Campion High School, Prairie du Chien Priests Solanus Casey Robert Herman Flock George Albert Hammes Felix Ley Other The Catholic Times (newspaper)   Catholicism portal      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Catholic_Times_(Wisconsin)&oldid=1282675598" Categories: Newspapers published in WisconsinCatholic Church in WisconsinCatholic newspapers published in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from June 2015All articles needing additional referencesUse mdy dates from February 2025 