    From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   This article is about the Weezer song. For the guitars, see Fender Musical Instruments Corporation. 2017 promotional single by Weezer"Mexican Fender"Promotional single by Weezerfrom the album  Pacific Daydream ReleasedAugust 17, 2017Recorded2016Genre Alternative rock power pop Length3:11LabelAtlanticSongwriter(s) Rivers Cuomo Toby Gad Producer(s)Toby Gad "Mexican Fender" is a song by the American rock band Weezer. It was released as a promotional single from their eleventh studio album Pacific Daydream on August 17, 2017, premiering on Beats 1.[1]   Reception[edit] DIY described "Mexican Fender" as a "perfect three-and-a-half minute slice of giddy, upbeat power-pop, sprinkling Weezer’s trademark “oohs” all over, and has a smattering of self-awareness."[2] Andy Cush at Spin called the song a "spiritual sequel" to "In the Garage" from the band's 1994 self-titled release (aka the Blue Album).[3]  Music video[edit] The music video was released on August 17, 2017. The video features a seagull falling in love with a woman beach goer. The seagull tries various methods to impress the woman, ending in her kissing it on the head. The beach goer is played by Chloe Mae, and the video was directed by Lior Molcho.[4]  Chart performance[edit] Weekly charts[edit]   Chart (2017)  Peakposition   Mexico (Billboard Ingles Airplay)[5]  39   References[edit]   ^ "Weezer Get All West Coast on "Mexican Fender," Confirm New Album". 17 August 2017. Retrieved October 9, 2017.  ^ "Tracks: Wolf Alice, Dream Wife, Weezer and more". DIY. 18 August 2017. Retrieved October 9, 2017.  ^ "Weezer - "Mexican Fender"". August 17, 2017. Retrieved October 9, 2017.  ^ "Weezer Preview New Album With Video About Seagull Love". Rolling Stone. 17 August 2017. Retrieved October 9, 2017.  ^ "Mexico Ingles Airplay : Aug 19, 2017 - Billboard Chart Archive". Billboard. Retrieved October 9, 2017.   vteWeezer Rivers Cuomo Patrick Wilson Brian Bell Scott Shriner Karl Koch Matt Sharp Jason Cropper Mikey Welsh Studio albums Blue Album Pinkerton Green Album Maladroit Make Believe Red Album Raditude Hurley Everything Will Be Alright in the End White Album Pacific Daydream Teal Album Black Album OK Human Van Weezer Compilation albums Death to False Metal Extended plays The Good Life Christmas CD The Lion and the Witch Christmas with Weezer SZNZ Spring Summer Autumn Winter Videos Weezer – Video Capture Device: Treasures from the Vault 1991–2002 Singles "Undone – The Sweater Song" "Buddy Holly" "Say It Ain't So" "El Scorcho" "The Good Life" "Hash Pipe" "Island in the Sun" "Photograph" "Dope Nose" "Keep Fishin'" "Beverly Hills" "We Are All on Drugs" "Perfect Situation" "Pork and Beans" "Troublemaker" "The Greatest Man That Ever Lived (Variations on a Shaker Hymn)" "Dreamin'" "(If You're Wondering If I Want You to) I Want You to" "I'm Your Daddy" "Memories" "Hang On" "Back to the Shack" "Cleopatra" "Da Vinci" "Thank God for Girls" "Do You Wanna Get High?" "King of the World" "Feels Like Summer" "Happy Hour" "Africa" "California Snow" "Can't Knock the Hustle" "Zombie Bastards" "The End of the Game" "Hero" "All My Favorite Songs" "Tell Me What You Want" "Enter Sandman" "A Little Bit of Love" "Records" Promotional singles "Pink Triangle" "This Is Such a Pity" "Mexican Fender" Other songs "My Name Is Jonas" "Only in Dreams" "Lonely Girl" "The British Are Coming" "Go Away" "Rosanna" "Take On Me" "Lost in the Woods" Tours Summer Tour 2016 Hella Mega Tour RelatedArticles Discography Songs Music The Kitchen Tape Songs from the Black Hole Alone: The Home Recordings of Rivers Cuomo Alone II: The Home Recordings of Rivers Cuomo Bands The Rentals Scott & Rivers The Special Goodness The Relationship Homie Space Twins    Category  Authority control databases MusicBrainz release group     Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mexican_Fender&oldid=1184284588" Categories: 2017 singles2017 songsWeezer songsSongs written by Rivers CuomoSongs written by Toby GadHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles with hAudio microformats 