https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revue_d%27Histoire_de_la_Shoah
    From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   French academic journal covering the Holocaust and other genocides This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these messages)  The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to demonstrate the notability of the topic by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond a mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be shown, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.Find sources: "Revue d'Histoire de la Shoah" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this message) This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject, potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral. Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent sources. (May 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this message)   (Learn how and when to remove this message)  Revue d'histoire de la Shoah (English: "Shoah History Review") is a biannual French academic journal covering the Holocaust (Shoah) and other genocides throughout history. It is published by Mémorial de la Shoah, a Holocaust museum in Paris. The editor-in-chief is Georges Bensoussan. The journal publishes articles from researchers and specialised academics, as well as testimonies and previously unpublished documents.[1] The journal was established in 1946 and is "the first and only French publication about the destruction of the Jews in Europe".[1]  References[edit]   ^ a b "Revue d'Histoire de la Shoah. — Enjeux contemporains de l'enseignement en histoire-géographie - ifé". ECEHG. Institut français de l'éducation. Retrieved 2019-05-17.   External links[edit] Official website (in French) Print: ISSN 2111-885X Online: ISSN 2553-6141    This article about a history journal is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.See tips for writing articles about academic journals. Further suggestions might be found on the article's talk page.vte This article related to the Holocaust is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.vte     Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Revue_d%27Histoire_de_la_Shoah&oldid=1189572770" Categories: History journalsBiannual journalsFrench-language journalsAcademic journals established in 1946Jews and Judaism in ParisHistory journal stubsHolocaust stubsHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles with topics of unclear notability from May 2019All articles with topics of unclear notabilityArticles lacking reliable references from May 2019All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles with multiple maintenance issuesArticles with French-language sources (fr)All stub articles 