https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhombic_drive
    From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Method of transferring mechanical energy This article relies largely or entirely on a single source. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please help improve this article by introducing  citations to additional sources.Find sources: "Rhombic drive" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2019) Cut away diagram of a Rhombic Drive Beta Stirling Engine Design 1 (Pink) - Hot cylinder wall, 2 (Dark grey) - Cold cylinder wall (with coolant inlet and outlet pipes marked 3 in Yellow), 4 (Dark Green) - Thermal insulation separating the two cylinder ends, 5 (Light Green) - Displacer piston, 6 (Dark Blue) - Power piston, 7 (Light Blue) - Flywheels, Not Shown: external heat-source, and external heat-sinks. In this design the Displacer piston is used without a regenerator. The rhombic drive is a specific method of transferring mechanical energy, or work, used when a single cylinder is used for two separately oscillating pistons.   History[edit] It was originally developed around 1900 for the twin-cylinder Lanchester car engine where it allowed perfect balancing of the inertial forces on both pistons.  A current example of its use is on beta type-Stirling engines; the drive's complexity and tight tolerances, causing a high cost of manufacture, is a hurdle for the widespread usage of this drive.  Operation[edit]  Schematic of a rhombic drive stirling engine in operation. In its simplest form, the drive utilizes a jointed rhomboid to convert linear work from a reciprocating piston to rotational work.   The connecting rod of the piston is rigid as opposed to a common reciprocating engine which directly connects the piston to the crankshaft with a flexible joint in the piston. Instead, the rod connects to one corner of a rhombus.   When force is applied to the piston, it pushes down; at the same time, the outer corners of the rhomboid push out. They push on two cranks/flywheels which cause them to rotate, each in opposite directions. As the wheels rotate the rhombus progresses its change of shape from being flattened in the direction of the piston axis at top dead centre to being flattened in the perpendicular direction to the piston axis at bottom dead centre. In the pictured example the left crank/flywheel turns clockwise and the right crank/flywheel anticlockwise.  They turn at the same angular velocity and this can be reinforced by intermeshing them as gear wheels.  References[edit] Mechanical Drives for Stirling Engines Dr. Siegfried "Zig" Herzog, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Penn State University at Mont Alto. 06/01/05  Accessed August 2007 See also[edit]   vteEngine configurations for piston enginesType Atmospheric Axial Beam Cornish Rotative Bourke Cam engine Camless Compound Double-acting cylinder Flathead Free-piston Stelzer Hemi Heron head Intake over exhaust Oscillating cylinder Opposed-piston Overhead camshaft Overhead valve Pentroof Rotary Single-acting cylinder Split cycle Swing-piston Uniflow Watt Wedge Stroke cycles Two-stroke Four-stroke Five-stroke Six-stroke Two-and four-stroke Cylinder layoutsInline / straight I1 I2 I3 I4 I5 I6 I7 I8 I9 I12 I14 Flat / boxer F2 F4 F6 F8 F10 F12 F16 V / Vee V2 V3 V4 V5 VR5 V6 VR6 V8 V10 V12 V14 V16 V18 V20 V24 W W3 W6 W8 W12 W16 W18 W24 W30 Other Deltic H Radial Split-single U X      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rhombic_drive&oldid=1226122470" Categories: Piston enginesEngine technologyLinkages (mechanical)Hidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataArticles needing additional references from March 2019All articles needing additional references 