https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peripheral_ossifying_fibroma
    From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   Medical conditionPeripheral ossifying fibromaSpecialtyDentistry A peripheral ossifying fibroma, also known as ossifying fibrous epulis, is “a gingival nodule which is composed of a cellular fibroblastic connective tissue stroma which is associated with the formation of randomly dispersed foci of mineralised products, which consists of bone, cementum-like tissue, or a dystrophic calcification. The lesion is considered part of an ossifying fibroma, but that is usually considered to be a jaw tumor.  Because of its overwhelming incidence on the gingiva, the condition is associated with two other diseases, though not because they occur together.  Instead, the three are associated with each other because they appear frequently on gingiva: pyogenic granuloma and peripheral giant cell granuloma.  Some researchers believe peripheral ossifying fibromas to be related to pyogenic fibromas and, in some instances, are the result of a pyogenic granuloma which has undergone fibrosis and calcification. The term peripheral ossifying fibroma has been criticized as this lesion is not related to the ossifying fibroma of bone and is not a fibroma.[1] This term is used in America, however in Britain, this lesion would be termed a fibrous epulis containing bone.[1]   Signs and symptoms[edit] The color of peripheral ossifying fibromas ranges from red to pink, and is frequently ulcerated.[2]  It can be sessile or pedunculated with the size usually being less than 2 cm. Weeks or months may pass by before it is seen and diagnosed.[citation needed] There is a gender difference with 66% of the disease occurring in females.  The prevalence of peripheral ossifying fibromas is highest around 10 – 19 years of age.  It appears only on the gingiva, more often on the maxilla rather than the mandible, and is frequently found in the area around incisors and canines.  The adjacent teeth are usually not affected.[citation needed] Peripheral ossifying fibromas appear microscopically as a combination of a mineralized product and fibrous proliferation.  The mineralized portion may be bone, cementum-like, or dystrophic calcifications.  Additionally, highly developed bone or cementum is more likely to be present when the peripheral ossifying fibroma has existed for a longer period of time.[citation needed]  Diagnosis[edit] Diagnosis is based on clinical assessment and confirmed by histopathology.  Treatment[edit] Treatment usually involves surgical removal of the lesion down to the bone.[2]  If there are any adjacent teeth, they are cleaned thoroughly to remove any possible source of irritation. Surgical methods can be traditional,  Nd:YAG laser or QMR scalpel. Recurrence is around 16%,[3] with some studies reporting up to 45%.[4] It is unclear if the rate of recurrence is influenced by the surgical technique used.[4]  References[edit]  ^ a b Cawson RA, Odell EW (2002). Cawson's essentials of oral pathology and oral medicine (7. ed.). Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone. pp. 275–278. ISBN 0443071063.  ^ a b Poonacha KS, Shigli AL, Shirol D (2010). "Peripheral ossifying fibroma: A clinical report". Contemp Clin Dent. 1 (1): 54–6. doi:10.4103/0976-237X.62520. PMC 3220071. PMID 22215935.  ^ Thompson LD, Wenig BM. Diagnostic Pathology: Head and Neck. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011; 4:66-67 (ISBN 1931884617)  ^ a b Kaplan, G A; Seeman, T E; Cohen, R D; Knudsen, L P; Guralnik, J (1987). "Mortality among the elderly in the Alameda County Study: behavioral and demographic risk factors". American Journal of Public Health. 77 (3): 307–312. doi:10.2105/AJPH.77.3.307. ISSN 0090-0036. PMC 1646902. PMID 3812836.   External links[edit] ClassificationDICD-O: 9262/0MeSH: D018214 vteTumours of bone and cartilageDiaphysis Multiple myeloma Epithelia Adamantinoma Primitive neuroectodermal tumor Ewing family Ewing sarcoma MetaphysisOsteoblast Osteoid osteoma Osteoblastoma Osteoma/osteosarcoma Chondroblast Chondroma/ecchondroma/enchondroma Enchondromatosis Extraskeletal chondroma Chondrosarcoma Mesenchymal chondrosarcoma Myxoid chondrosarcoma Osteochondroma Osteochondromatosis Chondromyxoid fibroma Fibrous Ossifying fibroma Fibrosarcoma EpiphysisChondroblast Chondroblastoma Myeloid Giant-cell tumor of bone OtherNotochord Chordoma  vteConnective/soft tissue tumors and sarcomasNot otherwise specified Soft-tissue sarcoma Desmoplastic small-round-cell tumor Skin sarcoma Connective tissue neoplasmFibromatousFibroma/fibrosarcoma Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Desmoplastic fibroma Fibroma/fibromatosis Aggressive fibromatosis Aggressive infantile fibromatosis Aponeurotic fibroma Collagenous fibroma Diffuse infantile fibromatosis Familial myxovascular fibromas Fibroma of tendon sheath Fibromatosis colli Infantile digital fibromatosis Juvenile hyaline fibromatosis Plantar fibromatosis Pleomorphic fibroma Oral submucous fibrosis Pachydermodactyly Histiocytoma/histiocytic sarcoma Benign fibrous histiocytoma Malignant fibrous histiocytoma Atypical fibroxanthoma Solitary fibrous tumor Myxomatous Myxoma/myxosarcoma Cutaneous myxoma Superficial acral fibromyxoma Angiomyxoma Ossifying fibromyxoid tumour Fibroepithelial Brenner tumour Fibroadenoma Phyllodes tumor Synovial-like Synovial sarcoma Clear-cell sarcoma Lipomatous Lipoma/liposarcoma Myelolipoma Myxoid liposarcoma PEComa Angiomyolipoma Chondroid lipoma Intradermal spindle cell lipoma Pleomorphic lipoma Lipoblastomatosis Spindle cell lipoma Hibernoma MyomatousGeneral Myoma/myosarcoma Smooth muscle Leiomyoma/leiomyosarcoma Skeletal muscle Rhabdomyoma/rhabdomyosarcoma: Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma Sarcoma botryoides Alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma  Leiomyoma Cutaneous Angioleiomyoma Angiolipoleiomyoma Genital leiomyoma Leiomyosarcoma Multiple cutaneous and uterine leiomyomatosis syndrome Multiple cutaneous leiomyoma Neural fibrolipoma Solitary cutaneous leiomyoma STUMP Complex mixed and stromal Adenomyoma Pleomorphic adenoma Mixed Müllerian tumor Mesoblastic nephroma Wilms' tumor Malignant rhabdoid tumour Clear-cell sarcoma of the kidney Hepatoblastoma Pancreatoblastoma Carcinosarcoma Mesothelial Mesothelioma Adenomatoid tumor      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Peripheral_ossifying_fibroma&oldid=1210024916" Categories: Oral neoplasiaOsseous and chondromatous neoplasiaHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from October 2020Articles with unsourced statements from September 2021 