    From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia   2011 military campaign during the Libyan Civil War Cyrenaican Desert CampaignPart of Libyan Civil WarDate3 April – 12 June 2011LocationEastern Libyan Desert, LibyaResult Indecisive  Pro-Gaddafi forces capture and hold Kufra from 28 April to 7 May Anti-Gaddafi forces repel several loyalist raids on Jalu Pro-Gaddafi forces damage several rebel-held oil pipelines halting oil flowBelligerents  Anti-Gaddafi forces  National Liberation Army  Gaddafi Loyalists  Libyan Army Paramilitary forcesCommanders and leaders  Saleh Muhammad al-Zaruq[1] Abdullah Aitha[2] Belqasem Al-AbaajCasualties and losses 25 killed At least 3 killed 5 civilians killed vteFirst Libyan Civil War Timeline Feb–18 Mar 19 Mar–May Jun–15 Aug 16 Aug–Oct  Bayda 1st Benghazi 1st Tripoli Misrata 1st Zawiya Nafusa Mountains Wazzin Gharyan 1st Brega Ra's Lanuf Bin Jawad 2nd Brega Ajdabiya 2nd Benghazi 1st Gulf of Sidra 3rd Brega Brega–Ajdabiya Cyrenaican desert Misrata Frontline Tawergha Zliten uprising Sebha Zawiya 4th Brega Fezzan Sebha Msallata Coastal Offensive 2nd Zawiya Ras Ajdir Tripoli 2nd Gulf of Sidra 2nd Bin Jawad Sirte Bani Walid Ra's Lanuf Ghadames 2nd Tripoli Killing of Muammar Gaddafi  The Cyrenaican desert campaign was a military campaign that initiated in April 2011 by the Libyan military in the form of hit-and-run attacks against rebel-held towns and oil facilities in the eastern Libyan Desert, during the Libyan Civil War. The campaign failed in denying anti-Gaddafi forces control of southern Cyrenaica.  Campaign[edit] On 3 April, the security chief for the Kufra region, Saleh Muhammad al-Zaruq, declared his and his troops' support for the rebels and broke off from the Gaddafi government, taking control of the area.[1] On 4 April, loyalist forces blew up a crucial water pipeline near Jalu in an attempt to cut water supplies for rebel-held east Libya. However, during the process, they also inadvertently destroyed part of the pipeline system supplying west Libya as well as the east.[3] On 6 April, the Gaddafi government stated that a NATO air-strike on the Sarir oil field left three oil facility security guards dead.[4] However, the rebels, who were already in control of the oil field per some reports, claimed that it was not a NATO but a loyalist ground attack.[5] On 21 April, a convoy of nine loyalist vehicles attacked the rebel-held al-Boster oil facility in the Libyan desert, about 300 kilometres (190 mi) south west of Tobruk. Eight of the nine rebels that were stationed at the pumping station were killed in the attack while the ninth managed to escape while seriously wounded.[6] On 28 April, loyalist forces entered the town of Kufra, also called Al Jawf, which is the capital of the Kufra District and re-took control of the town from the rebels. The opposition forces put up only light resistance and retreated almost immediately. After that, a convoy of government troops in 50-60 pick-up trucks drove into the city centre and raised the green flag in front of the town's court house. Three people were killed during the initial shelling of Kufra, according to the pro-rebel Brnieq newspaper website.[7] On 30 April, government troops advanced further north to the town of Jalu, which is just south of the frontline town of Ajdabiya. The military convoy ran through the town opening fire and killing at least 10 people, at least five of them opposition fighters.[8] Three pro-Gaddafi soldiers were killed during the fighting. The convoy than proceeded to the city's northern outskirts and divided into two groups, each positioning itself for the night at Jalu's two oil facilities.[9] On 1 May, rebels claimed that NATO aircraft hit and destroyed 45 loyalist vehicles while the government military convoy was leaving Jalu.[10] However, NATO made no mention of the convoy destruction during its daily operational update for 1 May,[11] and no NATO or independent confirmation of the claim or the attack was established. On 6 May, loyalist forces attacked a rebel checkpoint between Jalu and Kufra, killing six rebel fighters. The next day, loyalists conducted a hit-and-run attack against Jalu and the smaller oasis town of Ojla. The rebels also claimed to have re-taken Kufra, but loyalist forces were still in the surrounding area.[12] On 25 May, rebel forces attacked government troops near Kufra, destroying a weapons-laden vehicle. They claimed that the loyalist force was composed of Sudanese mercenaries.[13] On 12 June, the last loyalist raid against rebel positions occurred when a force of government troops attacked the Mislah and Sarir oil fields. On 1 July, The Daily Telegraph reported that, mid-June, a Sudanese military force crossed the Libyan border and took control of Kufra and the nearby military base. They had also surrounded the oil fields, but did not appear to be disrupting efforts to resume oil production. Still, the oil fields had suffered extensive damage due to loyalist raids and time was needed to repair them. The fate of the rebel contingent in Kufra was unknown.[14] Sudan later denied any military involvement in Libya.[15] By 27 June, it was reported loyalist forces were still holding strategic points near Kufra.[16]  Aftermath[edit] Main article: Fezzan campaign In July 2011, National Liberation Army brigades out of Kufra reportedly seized control of much of Murzuq District in the Fezzan and threatened to march on Sabha.[17]  References[edit]   ^ a b Kufra’s Security Chief Joined The Libyan Revolutionaries ![permanent dead link]  ^ "Libyan rebels: NATO bombs camel weapons caravan". Retrieved 21 November 2014.  ^ "Gaddafi forces cut access to oil and water". Archived from the original on 29 November 2014. Retrieved 21 November 2014.  ^ Golovnina, Maria (7 April 2011). "Libya says NATO air strike hits major oil field". Reuters Africa. Tripoli. Reuters. Archived from the original on 23 September 2012. Retrieved 14 January 2012.  ^ Dziadosz, Alexander (7 April 2011). "Rebels say Gaddafi, not British, attacked oilfield". Reuters Africa. Benghazi. Reuters. Archived from the original on 23 September 2012. Retrieved 14 January 2012.  ^ Sayah, Reza (24 April 2011). "Eight rebels killed in attack on Libyan oil pumping station". CNN. Tripoli. Retrieved 14 January 2012.  ^ Noueihed, Lin; Boumzar, Abdelaziz (28 April 2011). "Libyan forces overrun rebels on Tunisian border". Reuters Africa. Tripoli, Libya and Dehiba, Tunisia. Reuters. Archived from the original on December 9, 2018. Retrieved 14 January 2012.  ^ "Deadly Gaddafi assault on Libyan oasis town: Rebels". Straits Times. 1 May 2011.  ^ "Gaddafi assault on Libyan oasis town". New Zealand Herald. Benghazi. Agence France-Presse. 1 May 2011. Retrieved 10 January 2012.  ^ "NATO air strike destroyed a convoy of 45 Gaddafi vehicles near Jalu". 1 May 2011. Archived from the original on 15 August 2011.  ^ "Update: NATO activities in Libya on May 2". 2 May 2011. Archived from the original on 13 May 2011.  ^ "Gaddafi steps up attacks across Libya: rebels". 7 May 2011. Archived from the original on 6 June 2017. Retrieved 9 May 2011.  ^ "Libyan rebels, Sudan mercenaries clash". News24. Retrieved 21 November 2014.  ^ "Sudanese army seizes southern Libyan town". Telegraph.co.uk. 1 July 2011. Retrieved 21 November 2014.  ^ Sudan repudiates reports on occupying Libyan town  ^ "Marshalling Libya's oil supplies key to Qaddafi's downfall". Archived from the original on 22 November 2012. Retrieved 21 November 2014.  ^ "Rebels Move Toward Gadhafi Stronghold". Wall Street Journal. 20 July 2011.   vteLibyan civil war (2011) Part of the Arab Spring Timeline 15 February–18 March 19 March–31 May June–15 August 16 August–23 October Forces Opposition National Liberation Army Free Libyan Air Force NCLO Armed Forces of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Libyan Army Libyan Air Force Libyan Navy Revolutionary Guard Corps BattlesCyrenaica Battle of Bayda First Battle of Benghazi First Battle of Brega Battle of Ra's Lanuf Battle of Bin Jawad Second Battle of Brega Battle of Ajdabiya Second Battle of Benghazi First Gulf of Sidra offensive Third Battle of Brega Battle of Brega–Ajdabiya road Cyrenaica campaign Fourth Battle of Brega Ra's Lanuf raid Fezzan Sabha clashes Fezzan campaign Battle of Sabha Ghadames raid Tripolitania First Tripoli clashes Battle of Misrata First Battle of Zawiya Nafusa Mountain Campaign Battle of Wazzin Battle of Gharyan Battle of the Misrata frontline Zliten uprising Battle of Zliten Battle of Tawergha Zawiya skirmish Msallata clashes Rebel coastal offensive Second Battle of Zawiya Ras Ajdir clashes Battle of Tripoli Second Gulf of Sidra offensive Battle of Sirte Battle of Bani Walid Second Tripoli clashes NATO operations Operation Ellamy Opération Harmattan Operation Mobile Operation Odyssey Dawn Operation Unified Protector PeopleAnti-Gaddafi Mustafa Abdul Jalil Mahmoud Jibril Abdul Fatah Younis Khalifa Haftar Abdelhakim Belhadj Ali al-Sallabi Abdul Hafiz Ghoga Suleiman Mahmoud Omar El-Hariri Mohammed Ali Madani Mustafa Bin Dardef Hamid Hassy Daou al-Salhine al-Jadak Jalal al-Digheily Ali Tarhouni Abdel Moneim al-Houni Ali Zeidan Abdurrahim El-Keib Osama al-Juwaili Ahmed al-Senussi Hussein Darbouk Fathi Terbil Ali Attalah Obeidi Mahdi al-Harati Khalid Shahmah Yousef Mangoush Abu Oweis Abdullah Naker Ismail al-Salabi Sadiq Al-Ghariani Seham Sergiwa Fathi Bashagha Mustafa A. G. Abushagur Ahmed Omar Bani Al-Mahdi Al-Barghathi Salwa Bughaighis Abdel-Hakim al-Hasidi Kais al-Hilali Ali Abd-al-Aziz al-Isawi Mohammed Magariaf Mohammed Najm Mehdi Mohammed Zeyo Mahmoud al-Werfalli Pro-Gaddafi Muammar Gaddafi Abu-Bakr Yunis Jabr Saif al-Islam Gaddafi Khamis Gaddafi Mutassim Gaddafi Al-Saadi Gaddafi Ayesha Gaddafi Abdullah Senussi Ali Sharif al-Rifi Moussa Ibrahim Abuzed Omar Dorda Baghdadi Mahmudi Mansour Dhao Saif al-Arab Gaddafi Ahmed al-Gaddafi al-Qahsi Mohammed Abdullah al-Senussi Bashir Saleh Bashir Ahmed Gaddaf al-Dam Abdel Rahman Abdel Hamid Tohami Khaled Ali Kanna Khweldi Hameidi Muftah Anaqrat Hasan al-Kabir al-Gaddafi Mohamed Gayth Massoud Abdelhafid Mahdi al-Arabi Huda Ben Amer Hala Misrati Safia Farkash Abdul Ati al-Obeidi Mohamed Abu al-Qasim al-Zwai Salih Rajab al-Mismari Abdul Majid al-Qa′ud Tayeb El-Safi Sayyid Gaddaf al-Dam Bashir Saghir Hawadi Abdulqadir al-Baghdadi Mustafa Kharoubi NATO James G. Stavridis Charles Bouchard Ralph Jodice Rinaldo Veri J. Christopher Stevens Others Moussa Koussa Shukri Ghanem Abdel Rahman Shalgham Abdessalam Jalloud Ali Treki Imbarek Shamekh Nuri al-Mismari Mohammed Nabbous Iman al-Obeidi Prince Mohammed El Senussi Prince Idris bin Abdullah al-Senussi Hussein Sadiq al Musrati Mustafa Ben Halim Ihab Al-Mismari Places, buildingsand structures Abu Salim prison Bab al-Azizia Fist Crushing a U.S. Fighter Plane Sculpture Giuliana Bridge Green Square/Martyrs' Square Maydan al Shajara Mitiga International Airport People's Hall, Tripoli Impact Casualties Domestic responses Human rights violations Rape allegations Humanitarian situation Refugees International reactions International reactions to military intervention Protests against military intervention U.S. reactions to military intervention International reactions to Gaddafi's death Factional violence in Libya 2012 Benghazi attack 2014–2020 civil war Timeline Manchester Arena bombing Afriqiyah Airways Flight 209 Other Belarus in Libyan conflict Democratic Party (Libya) Libyan Freedom and Democracy Campaign Media National Transitional Council Topple the Tyrants United Nations General Assembly Resolution 65/265 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1970 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 United Nations Security Council Resolution 2009 United Nations Security Council Resolution 2016 Voice of Free Libya Zenga Zenga  Italics denote operations or battles related to the military intervention in Libya  Category  Commons  Wikinews  Wikiquotes      Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cyrenaican_desert_campaign&oldid=1253388186" Categories: Battles of the Libyan civil war (2011)Conflicts in 2011Kufra DistrictHistory of CyrenaicaHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from August 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksCS1: unfit URLArticles with short descriptionShort description matches Wikidata 